# UrbanWelfare-SchoolInequalities
Despite the tantalising evidence for Brazilian students’ socioeconomic status being one of the leading single predictors of their school achievements (dos Santos, 2017), this measure does not account for the complexity of the ‘real income’ (Harvey, 1971) that the city must offer people in terms of material conditions of life, in the form of housing, transportation and quality education, to be provided and used collectively. This concept allows one to evaluate better how the uneven distribution of urban conditions among social groups in the city favours social inequalities (Ribeiro & Ribeiro, 2013, pp. 9–11). Yet, the changing Brazilian urban reality segregates people in socio-spatial terms and distributes urban public resources unfairly, threatening student’s access to the structure of educational opportunities and causing school inequalities (Ribeiro, Koslinski, Zuccarelli, & Christovão, 2016). For that reason, we expanded the study of Ribeiro et al. (2016) in Brazilian metropolises, using data from Brazil’s 2010 Population and Housing Census made available via the SIDRA system , to investigate each of the 20 indicators that compose the Urban Welfare Index (IBEU) (Ribeiro & Ribeiro, 2013). Factors such as existence of public lighting, paving, sidewalk, wheelchair ramp, open sewage and garbage accumulated around the homes, as well as electricity and water supply, sanitation, the material of the walls of the houses, and the number of residents per bedroom and bathroom as predictors of school achievements as measured using their average ENEM (National High School Exam) outcomes and IDEB (Basic Education Development Index) results are discussed using Data Science methods. Results show that the Urban Housing Conditions dimension of IBEU has a higher correlation with IDEB, while students’ socioeconomic status correlates better with ENEM than with IDEB, relations that are clearly illustrated by means of bivariate choropleth maps across each of the 5,564 Brazilian municipalities. This seems to confirm that the uneven distribution of urban conditions reduces educational opportunities and engenders social inequalities that are incompatible with a sustainable society.
